.\" Copyright (c) 2014 /n software inc. - All rights reserved.
.\" For more information, please visit www.nsoftware.com.
.\"
.TH CertMgr 3  2008-02-26 "IP*Works! SSH V9" "IP*Works! SSH V9 C++ Edition Manual Pages"

.SH NAME
CertMgr \- The CertMgr component is used to manage the digital certificates installed
on a system.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ipworksssh.h>
.br
.B #include <certmgr.h>
.sp
.BI "CertMgr *pInstance = new CertMgr();"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
NOTE: The following is only a brief description of the component.  Please refer
to the accompanying HTML documentation for complete details.
.BR
The CertMgr component is used to manage the digital certificates installed
on a system.
The component methods, such as
ListCertificateStores
or
ListStoreCertificates
,
are used to list certificate stores and certificates.  The corresponding lists are returned 
via the
StoreList
and
CertList
events.  Encoded certificates are 
provided through the events.

.br

You can load a certificate by setting the
Cert
property of the
component, then you can get information about the certificate through the corresponding 
fields of the
Cert
property (described below).

.br

The
Subject
,
SerialNumber
, and
Issuer
properties
identify the certificate. The
EffectiveDate
and
ExpirationDate
show the time boundaries
of the certificate.

.br

PublicKey
,
PublicKeyAlgorithm
,
PublicKeyLength
, and
Version
provide information about the certificate keys and the
certificate format (version).

.br

UsageFlags
specifies the intended usage of the certificate.  The
Usage
property provides a text description of these flags.

.br


.SH PROPERTIES
CertEffectiveDate
.RS 
The date which this certificate becomes valid.
.RE
.sp
CertEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
CertExpirationDate
.RS 
The date the certificate expires.
.RE
.sp
CertExtendedKeyUsage
.RS 
A comma-delimited list of extended key usage identifiers.
.RE
.sp
CertFingerprint
.RS 
The hex-encoded, 16-byte MD5 fingerprint of the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertIssuer
.RS 
The issuer of the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertKeyPassword
.RS 
The password for the certificate's private key (if any).
.RE
.sp
CertPrivateKey
.RS 
The private key of the certificate (if available).
.RE
.sp
CertPrivateKeyAvailable
.RS 
Shows whether a PrivateKey is available for the  selected certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertPrivateKeyContainer
.RS 
The name of the PrivateKey container for the  certificate (if available).
.RE
.sp
CertPublicKey
.RS 
The public key of the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertPublicKeyAlgorithm
.RS 
Textual description of the public key algorithm of the  certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertPublicKeyLength
.RS 
The length of the certificate public key (in bits).
.RE
.sp
CertSerialNumber
.RS 
The serial number of the certificate encoded as a  string.
.RE
.sp
CertSignatureAlgorithm
.RS 
Text description of the signature algorithm of the  certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertSubject
.RS 
The subject of the certificate used for client authentication.
.RE
.sp
CertSubjectAltNames
.RS 
A comma-separated lists of alternative subject names of the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertThumbprintMD5
.RS 
MD5 hash of the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertThumbprintSHA1
.RS 
SHA1 hash of the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertUsage
.RS 
Text description of UsageFlags .
.RE
.sp
CertUsageFlags
.RS 
Flags that show intended use for the certificate.
.RE
.sp
CertVersion
.RS 
The certificate's version number.
.RE
.sp
CertExtensionCount
.RS 
The number of records in the CertExtension arrays.
.RE
.sp
CertExtensionCritical
.RS 
Whether or not the extension is defined as critical.
.RE
.sp
CertExtensionOID
.RS 
The ASN.
.RE
.sp
CertExtensionValue
.RS 
The raw value of this certificate extension.
.RE
.sp
CertStore
.RS 
The certificate store to search for certificates.
.RE
.sp
CertStorePassword
.RS 
The password for the certificate store (if any).
.RE
.sp
CertStoreType
.RS 
The type of certificate store for CertStore .
.RE
.sp


.SH METHODS
Config
.RS 
Sets or retrieves a configuration setting.
.RE
.sp
CreateCertificate
.RS 
Creates a new self-signed certificate in the current store.
.RE
.sp
CreateKey
.RS 
Creates a new keyset associated with the provided name.
.RE
.sp
DeleteCertificate
.RS 
Deletes the currently selected certificate from the store.
.RE
.sp
DeleteKey
.RS 
Deletes the keyset associated with the provided name.
.RE
.sp
ExportCertificate
.RS 
Saves the current certificate to a PFX file.
.RE
.sp
GenerateCSR
.RS 
Generates a new CSR to be sent to a signing authority.
.RE
.sp
ImportCertificate
.RS 
Imports a certificate from a PFX file into the current certificate store.
.RE
.sp
ImportSignedCSR
.RS 
Imports a signed CSR.
.RE
.sp
IssueCertificate
.RS 
Creates a new certificate in the current store, signed by the selected certificate.
.RE
.sp
ListCertificateStores
.RS 
Lists certificate stores.
.RE
.sp
ListKeys
.RS 
List keysets in a CSP.
.RE
.sp
ListMachineStores
.RS 
List machine certificate stores.
.RE
.sp
ListStoreCertificates
.RS 
List certificates in a store.
.RE
.sp
ReadCertificate
.RS 
Loads a certificate from a file.
.RE
.sp
Reset
.RS 
Resets all certificate properties to their default values.
.RE
.sp
SaveCertificate
.RS 
Saves the current certificate to a file.
.RE
.sp
ShowCertificateChain
.RS 
Show certificate chain.
.RE
.sp
SignCSR
.RS 
Creates a signed certificate from a CSR.
.RE
.sp


.SH EVENTS
CertChain
.RS 
Shows the certificate chain for the certificate (see the ShowCertificateChain method).
.RE
.sp
CertList
.RS 
Lists the certificates in a store (see the ListStoreCertificates method).
.RE
.sp
Error
.RS 
Information about errors during data delivery.
.RE
.sp
KeyList
.RS 
Lists the keysets in a CSP (see the ListKeys method).
.RE
.sp
StoreList
.RS 
Lists the system certificate stores (see the ListCertificateStores and ListMachineStores methods).
.RE
.sp


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CertMgr (3),
.BR PSClient (3),
.BR SCP (3),
.BR SExec (3),
.BR SFTP (3),
.BR SSHClient (3),
.BR SSHDaemon (3),
.BR SShell (3),
.BR SSHReverseTunnel (3),
.BR SSHTunnel (3),


