.\" Copyright (c) 2014 /n software inc. - All rights reserved.
.\" For more information, please visit www.nsoftware.com.
.\"
.TH PSClient 3  2008-02-26 "IP*Works! SSH V9" "IP*Works! SSH V9 C++ Edition Manual Pages"

.SH NAME
PSClient \- The PSClient component can be used to execute PowerShell commands remotely 
on PowerShell Server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ipworksssh.h>
.br
.B #include <psclient.h>
.sp
.BI "PSClient *pInstance = new PSClient();"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
NOTE: The following is only a brief description of the component.  Please refer
to the accompanying HTML documentation for complete details.
.BR
The PSClient component can be used to execute PowerShell commands remotely 
on PowerShell Server.
PSClient allows any PowerShell command to be executed remotely in a secure manner, using the SSH protocol.
The results of the command execution are then returned as a list of objects, each one with a base type, an (optional) value and a collection
of named properties.

.br

Note:
By default no profiles are loaded when executing. However you can use dot-sourcing to load any profile. For example:

.br

<PRE>
./profiles/YourProfile.ps1
</PRE>


.br


.SH PROPERTIES
Connected
.RS 
Triggers a connection or disconnection.
.RE
.sp
FirewallAutoDetect
.RS 
This property tells the component whether or not to automatically detect and use firewall system settings, if available.
.RE
.sp
FirewallType
.RS 
This property determines the type of firewall to connect through.
.RE
.sp
FirewallHost
.RS 
This property contains the name or IP address of firewall (optional).
.RE
.sp
FirewallPassword
.RS 
This property contains a password if authentication is to be used when connecting through the firewall.
.RE
.sp
FirewallPort
.RS 
This property contains the TCP port for the firewall Host .
.RE
.sp
FirewallUser
.RS 
This property contains a user name if authentication is to be used connecting through a firewall.
.RE
.sp
LocalHost
.RS 
The name of the local host or user-assigned IP interface through which connections are initiated or accepted.
.RE
.sp
LocalPort
.RS 
The TCP port in the local host where IPPort binds.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectPropertyCount
.RS 
The number of records in the PSObjectProperty arrays.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectPropertyDataType
.RS 
The type of this property Each property has a unique name, a value, a type and a boolean value indicating if it's null.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectPropertyIsNull
.RS 
True, if the property has a null value Each property has a unique name, a value, a type and a boolean value indicating if it's null.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectPropertyName
.RS 
The name of a property Each property has a unique name, a value, a type and a boolean value indicating if it's null.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectPropertyValue
.RS 
The value of this property Each property has a unique name, a value, a type and a boolean value indicating if it's null.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectBaseType
.RS 
The base type name of the current output object.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectCount
.RS 
The number of objects returned by the pipeline execution.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectIndex
.RS 
The index of the current object selected in the list of outputs.
.RE
.sp
PSObjectValue
.RS 
The value of the current output object.
.RE
.sp
SSHAcceptServerHostKeyEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
SSHAuthMode
.RS 
The authentication method to be used the component when performing an SSHLogon .
.RE
.sp
SSHCertEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStore
.RS 
The name of the certificate store for the client certificate.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStorePassword
.RS 
If the certificate store is of a type that requires  a password, this property is used to specify that  password in order to open the certificate store.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStoreType
.RS 
The type of certificate store for this certificate.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertSubject
.RS 
The subject of the certificate used for client authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHCompressionAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable compression algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHEncryptionAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable compression algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHHost
.RS 
The address of the SSH host.
.RE
.sp
SSHKeyExchangeAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable key exchange algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHMacAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable message authentication algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHPassword
.RS 
The password for SSH password-based authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHPort
.RS 
The port on the SSH server where the SSH service is running; by default, 22.
.RE
.sp
SSHPublicKeyAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable public key authentication algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHUser
.RS 
The username for SSH authentication.
.RE
.sp
Timeout
.RS 
A timeout for the component.
.RE
.sp


.SH METHODS
ClearOutput
.RS 
Clears the output list.
.RE
.sp
Config
.RS 
Sets or retrieves a configuration setting.
.RE
.sp
DoEvents
.RS 
Processes events from the internal message queue.
.RE
.sp
Execute
.RS 
Execute a command on the remote PowerShell Server.
.RE
.sp
GetPropertyValue
.RS 
Looks up a property by name and returns the value.
.RE
.sp
Interrupt
.RS 
Stop execution of a running command.
.RE
.sp
SSHLogoff
.RS 
Logoff from the SSH server.
.RE
.sp
SSHLogon
.RS 
Logon to the selected server.
.RE
.sp


.SH EVENTS
Connected
.RS 
Fired immediately after a connection completes (or fails).
.RE
.sp
ConnectionStatus
.RS 
Fired to indicate changes in connection state.
.RE
.sp
Disconnected
.RS 
Fired when a connection is closed.
.RE
.sp
Error
.RS 
Information about errors during data delivery.
.RE
.sp
PSObject
.RS 
Fires when a new object is parsed on the server output.
.RE
.sp
SSHKeyboardInteractive
.RS 
Fired when the component receives a request for user input from the server.
.RE
.sp
SSHServerAuthentication
.RS 
Fired after the server presents its public key to the client.
.RE
.sp
SSHStatus
.RS 
Shows the progress of the secure connection.
.RE
.sp


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CertMgr (3),
.BR PSClient (3),
.BR SCP (3),
.BR SExec (3),
.BR SFTP (3),
.BR SSHClient (3),
.BR SSHDaemon (3),
.BR SShell (3),
.BR SSHReverseTunnel (3),
.BR SSHTunnel (3),


