.\" Copyright (c) 2014 /n software inc. - All rights reserved.
.\" For more information, please visit www.nsoftware.com.
.\"
.TH SCP 3  2008-02-26 "IP*Works! SSH V9" "IP*Works! SSH V9 C++ Edition Manual Pages"

.SH NAME
SCP \- The SCP component can be used to transfer files to and from SSH servers using the Secure Copy Protocol (SCP).

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ipworksssh.h>
.br
.B #include <scp.h>
.sp
.BI "SCP *pInstance = new SCP();"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
NOTE: The following is only a brief description of the component.  Please refer
to the accompanying HTML documentation for complete details.
.BR
The SCP component can be used to transfer files to and from SSH servers using the Secure Copy Protocol (SCP).
The SCP component is the SSH-enabled equivalent of the IP*Works! RCP component.
The main difference is the introduction of a set of
new properties and events that deal
with SSH security.  The
SSHHost
and
SSHPort
properties specify the
SSH server to use. The
SSHUser
and
SSHPassword
properties allow the 
client to authenticate itself with the server. The
SSHServerAuthentication
event and/or
SSHAcceptServerHostKey
property allow you to check the server
identity. Finally, the
SSHStatus
event provides information about the
SSH handshake.

.br

The SCP component implements a standard SCP File Transfer client.

.br

The first step in using the component is specifying the
SSHHost
,
SSHUser
and
SSHPassword
.  The file to upload to or download from is given by the
RemoteFile
property.  The file to download to or upload from is specified by
LocalFile
.

.br

If
LocalFile
is set to something other than an empty string, then files are received in
LocalFile
, otherwise the data is received through the
Transfer
event.
StartTransfer
and
EndTransfer
are fired at the beginning and end of transmission.

.br


.SH PROPERTIES
Connected
.RS 
Triggers a connection or disconnection.
.RE
.sp
FilePermissions
.RS 
The file permissions for the RemoteFile .
.RE
.sp
FirewallAutoDetect
.RS 
This property tells the component whether or not to automatically detect and use firewall system settings, if available.
.RE
.sp
FirewallType
.RS 
This property determines the type of firewall to connect through.
.RE
.sp
FirewallHost
.RS 
This property contains the name or IP address of firewall (optional).
.RE
.sp
FirewallPassword
.RS 
This property contains a password if authentication is to be used when connecting through the firewall.
.RE
.sp
FirewallPort
.RS 
This property contains the TCP port for the firewall Host .
.RE
.sp
FirewallUser
.RS 
This property contains a user name if authentication is to be used connecting through a firewall.
.RE
.sp
LocalFile
.RS 
The path to a local file for download/upload.  If the file exists, it is overwritten.
.RE
.sp
LocalHost
.RS 
The name of the local host or user-assigned IP interface through which connections are initiated or accepted.
.RE
.sp
LocalPort
.RS 
The TCP port in the local host where IPPort binds.
.RE
.sp
Overwrite
.RS 
Whether or not the component should overwrite files during transfer.
.RE
.sp
RemoteFile
.RS 
The name of the remote file for uploading, downloading, etc.
.RE
.sp
RemotePath
.RS 
The remote path on the server.
.RE
.sp
SSHAcceptServerHostKeyEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
SSHAuthMode
.RS 
The authentication method to be used the component when performing an SSHLogon .
.RE
.sp
SSHCertEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStore
.RS 
The name of the certificate store for the client certificate.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStorePassword
.RS 
If the certificate store is of a type that requires  a password, this property is used to specify that  password in order to open the certificate store.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStoreType
.RS 
The type of certificate store for this certificate.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertSubject
.RS 
The subject of the certificate used for client authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHCompressionAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable compression algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHEncryptionAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable compression algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHHost
.RS 
The address of the SSH host.
.RE
.sp
SSHPassword
.RS 
The password for SSH password-based authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHPort
.RS 
The port on the SSH server where the SSH service is running; by default, 22.
.RE
.sp
SSHUser
.RS 
The username for SSH authentication.
.RE
.sp
Timeout
.RS 
A timeout for the component.
.RE
.sp


.SH METHODS
Config
.RS 
Sets or retrieves a configuration setting.
.RE
.sp
DecodePacket
.RS 
Decodes a hex-encoded SSH packet.
.RE
.sp
DoEvents
.RS 
Processes events from the internal message queue.
.RE
.sp
Download
.RS 
Download a RemoteFile from an SCP server.
.RE
.sp
EncodePacket
.RS 
Hex encodes an SSH packet.
.RE
.sp
GetSSHParam
.RS 
Used to read a field from an SSH packet's payload.
.RE
.sp
GetSSHParamBytes
.RS 
Used to read a field from an SSH packet's payload.
.RE
.sp
Interrupt
.RS 
Interrupt the current method.
.RE
.sp
SetSSHParam
.RS 
Used to write a field to the end of a payload.
.RE
.sp
SSHLogoff
.RS 
Logoff from the SSH server.
.RE
.sp
SSHLogon
.RS 
Logon to the SSHHost using the current SSHUser and SSHPassword .
.RE
.sp
Upload
.RS 
Upload a file specified by LocalFile to an SCP server.
.RE
.sp


.SH EVENTS
Connected
.RS 
Fired immediately after a connection completes (or fails).
.RE
.sp
ConnectionStatus
.RS 
Fired to indicate changes in connection state.
.RE
.sp
Disconnected
.RS 
Fired when a connection is closed.
.RE
.sp
EndTransfer
.RS 
Fired when a file completes downloading/uploading.
.RE
.sp
Error
.RS 
Information about errors during data delivery.
.RE
.sp
SSHCustomAuth
.RS 
Fired when the component is doing custom authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHKeyboardInteractive
.RS 
Fired when the component receives a request for user input from the server.
.RE
.sp
SSHServerAuthentication
.RS 
Fired after the server presents its public key to the client.
.RE
.sp
SSHStatus
.RS 
Shows the progress of the secure connection.
.RE
.sp
StartTransfer
.RS 
Fired when a file starts downloading/uploading.
.RE
.sp
Transfer
.RS 
Fired during file download/upload.
.RE
.sp


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CertMgr (3),
.BR PSClient (3),
.BR SCP (3),
.BR SExec (3),
.BR SFTP (3),
.BR SSHClient (3),
.BR SSHDaemon (3),
.BR SShell (3),
.BR SSHReverseTunnel (3),
.BR SSHTunnel (3),


