.\" Copyright (c) 2014 /n software inc. - All rights reserved.
.\" For more information, please visit www.nsoftware.com.
.\"
.TH SExec 3  2008-02-26 "IP*Works! SSH V9" "IP*Works! SSH V9 C++ Edition Manual Pages"

.SH NAME
SExec \- The SExec component is used to remotely execute a command on an SSH server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ipworksssh.h>
.br
.B #include <sexec.h>
.sp
.BI "SExec *pInstance = new SExec();"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
NOTE: The following is only a brief description of the component.  Please refer
to the accompanying HTML documentation for complete details.
.BR
The SExec component is used to remotely execute a command on an SSH server.
The SExec component establishes a Secure Shell (SSH) connection to a server and starts up the user's default shell. Using the component is very simple. The destination is specified by the
SSHHost
property, and the login information is given by the
SSHUser
and
SSHPassword
properties. To execute the command, simply call the
Execute
command or set the
Command
property with the command you wish to execute as the parameter. Further input can be supplied to the
Text
parameter of the
Send
method or via the
Stdin
property.

.br

The output of the command is returned through the
Stdout
event. If an error happens on the protocol level, the error message can be found in the
ErrorMessage
property. Errors during command execution (the stderr stream) are given by the
Stderr
event. Once the remote command or application terminates, the component will disconnect from the server. If the application's exit status is non-zero (success), the component will throw an exception.

.br


.SH PROPERTIES
Command
.RS 
The command to be sent to the remote host.
.RE
.sp
Connected
.RS 
Triggers a connection or disconnection.
.RE
.sp
ErrorMessage
.RS 
The error message returned by the server along with the ExitStatus .
.RE
.sp
ExitStatus
.RS 
The exit code for the last executed command.
.RE
.sp
FirewallAutoDetect
.RS 
This property tells the component whether or not to automatically detect and use firewall system settings, if available.
.RE
.sp
FirewallType
.RS 
This property determines the type of firewall to connect through.
.RE
.sp
FirewallHost
.RS 
This property contains the name or IP address of firewall (optional).
.RE
.sp
FirewallPassword
.RS 
This property contains a password if authentication is to be used when connecting through the firewall.
.RE
.sp
FirewallPort
.RS 
This property contains the TCP port for the firewall Host .
.RE
.sp
FirewallUser
.RS 
This property contains a user name if authentication is to be used connecting through a firewall.
.RE
.sp
LocalHost
.RS 
The name of the local host or user-assigned IP interface through which connections are initiated or accepted.
.RE
.sp
LocalPort
.RS 
The TCP port in the local host where IPPort binds.
.RE
.sp
SSHAcceptServerHostKeyEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
SSHAuthMode
.RS 
The authentication method to be used the component when performing an SSHLogon .
.RE
.sp
SSHCertEncoded
.RS 
The certificate (PEM/base64 encoded).
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStore
.RS 
The name of the certificate store for the client certificate.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStorePassword
.RS 
If the certificate store is of a type that requires  a password, this property is used to specify that  password in order to open the certificate store.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertStoreType
.RS 
The type of certificate store for this certificate.
.RE
.sp
SSHCertSubject
.RS 
The subject of the certificate used for client authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHCompressionAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable compression algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHEncryptionAlgorithms
.RS 
A comma-separated list containing all allowable compression algorithms.
.RE
.sp
SSHHost
.RS 
The address of the SSH host.
.RE
.sp
SSHPassword
.RS 
The password for SSH password-based authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHPort
.RS 
The port on the SSH server where the SSH service is running; by default, 22.
.RE
.sp
SSHUser
.RS 
The username for SSH authentication.
.RE
.sp
Stdin
.RS 
A string of data to be sent to the remote host while connected.
.RE
.sp
Timeout
.RS 
A timeout for the component.
.RE
.sp


.SH METHODS
Config
.RS 
Sets or retrieves a configuration setting.
.RE
.sp
DecodePacket
.RS 
Decodes a hex-encoded SSH packet.
.RE
.sp
DoEvents
.RS 
Processes events from the internal message queue.
.RE
.sp
EncodePacket
.RS 
Hex encodes an SSH packet.
.RE
.sp
Execute
.RS 
Execute a Command on the remote host.
.RE
.sp
GetSSHParam
.RS 
Used to read a field from an SSH packet's payload.
.RE
.sp
GetSSHParamBytes
.RS 
Used to read a field from an SSH packet's payload.
.RE
.sp
Interrupt
.RS 
Interrupt the current method.
.RE
.sp
Send
.RS 
Send standard input to the program executing on the remote host.
.RE
.sp
SetSSHParam
.RS 
Used to write a field to the end of a payload.
.RE
.sp
SSHLogoff
.RS 
Logoff from the SSH server.
.RE
.sp
SSHLogon
.RS 
Logon to the SSHHost using the current SSHUser and SSHPassword .
.RE
.sp


.SH EVENTS
Connected
.RS 
Fired immediately after a connection completes (or fails).
.RE
.sp
ConnectionStatus
.RS 
Fired to indicate changes in connection state.
.RE
.sp
Disconnected
.RS 
Fired when a connection is closed.
.RE
.sp
Error
.RS 
Information about errors during data delivery.
.RE
.sp
SSHCustomAuth
.RS 
Fired when the component is doing custom authentication.
.RE
.sp
SSHKeyboardInteractive
.RS 
Fired when the component receives a request for user input from the server.
.RE
.sp
SSHServerAuthentication
.RS 
Fired after the server presents its public key to the client.
.RE
.sp
SSHStatus
.RS 
Shows the progress of the secure connection.
.RE
.sp
Stderr
.RS 
Fired when data (complete lines) come in through stderr.
.RE
.sp
Stdout
.RS 
Fired when data (complete lines) come in through stdout.
.RE
.sp


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CertMgr (3),
.BR PSClient (3),
.BR SCP (3),
.BR SExec (3),
.BR SFTP (3),
.BR SSHClient (3),
.BR SSHDaemon (3),
.BR SShell (3),
.BR SSHReverseTunnel (3),
.BR SSHTunnel (3),


